flume-cassandra-plugin
======================

The flume-cassandra-plugin allows you to use [Apache Cassandra](http://cassandra.apache.org)
as a [Flume](https://github.com/cloudera/flume) sink.

Getting Started
---------------

1. Download flume-cassandra-plugin-X.Y.tar.gz from the Downloads section.

2. Extract the tarball with `tar -xzf`.

3. Set $FLUME_CLASSPATH for all terminals which will run Flume master or node:

~~~~~~ {bash}
export FLUME_CLASSPATH=`pwd`/flume-cassandra-plugin-1.0.0.jar:`pwd`/uuid-3.2.0.jar:`pwd`/cassandra-thrift-1.0.6.jar
~~~~~~

4. Modify flume-site.xml (you may start out by copying
flume-site.xml.template and removing the body of the file) to include:

~~~~~~ {xml}
<configuration>
  <property>
    <name>flume.plugin.classes</name>
    <value>org.apache.cassandra.plugins.flume.sink.SimpleCassandraSink,org.apache.cassandra.plugins.flume.sink.LogsandraSyslogSink</value>
    <description>Comma separated list of plugin classes</description>
  </property>
</configuration>
~~~~~~

5. Start the flume master and a node.  The node should log something like:

~~~~~~
2011-08-07 21:29:54,793 [main] INFO conf.SinkFactoryImpl: Found sink builder simpleCassandraSink in org.apache.cassandra.plugins.flume.sink.SimpleCassandraSink
...
2011-08-07 21:29:54,793 [main] INFO conf.SinkFactoryImpl: Found sink builder logsandraSyslogSink in org.apache.cassandra.plugins.flume.sink.LogsandraSyslogSink
~~~~~~

Usage
-----

This plugin primarily targets log storage right now.

There are two sinks available for use: the SimpleCassandraSink and
the LogsandraSyslogSink.

### Simple Cassandra Sink

The Simple Cassandra Sink requires four arguments for its constructor:

1. A keyspace (String).  For example, 'Keyspace1'.
2. A column family name (String) for storing data in.
3. A column family name (String) for storing indexes in.
4. A list Cassandra server hostname:port combinations (Strings)

Cassandra must already be configured so that the keyspace and both of the
column families must already exist. The index column family should use
a TimeUUIDType comparator. The data storage column family can use BytesType.

For example, in cassandra-cli you might create them like:

~~~~~~
[default@unknown] connect localhost/9160;
Connected to: "Test Cluster" on localhost/9160
[default@unknown] create keyspace Keyspace1;
23d30bd0-c16b-11e0-0000-242d50cf1ffd
Waiting for schema agreement...
... schemas agree across the cluster
[default@unknown] use Keyspace1;
Authenticated to keyspace: Keyspace1
[default@Keyspace1] create column family FlumeData;
2fcefa70-c16b-11e0-0000-242d50cf1ffd
Waiting for schema agreement...
... schemas agree across the cluster
[default@Keyspace1] create column family FlumeIndexes with comparator = 'TimeUUIDType';
4f1d8130-c16b-11e0-0000-242d50cf1ffd
Waiting for schema agreement...
... schemas agree across the cluster
[default@Keyspace1]
~~~~~~

When creating this sink with web UI (which you can access by default at
http://localhost:35871/flumeconfig.jsp), you will use a sink like:

`simpleCassandraSink("Keyspace1", "FlumeData", "FlumeIndexes", "localhost:9160")`

For multiple servers use:

`simpleCassandraSink("Keyspace1", "FlumeData", "FlumeIndexes", "localhost:9160", "hostname2:9160", "hostname3:9160")`

If you're new to flume and you want to test that the plugin works, I recommend
using a Source like `asciisynth(20, 100)`. You should see 20 corresponding entries
in each of the column families if you use `list` in cassandra-cli.


#### How it Works

When the Cassandra sink receives an event, it does the following:

1. In the index column family:
    a. Creates a column where the name is a type 1 UUID (timestamp based) and the value is empty.
    b. Inserts it into row "YYYYMMDDHH" (the current date and hour) in the given column family.
2. In the data column family:
    a. Creates a column where the name is 'data' and the value is the flume event body.
    b. Inserts it into a row with a key that is the same uuid from step 1.

This allows you to easily fetch all logs for a slice of time. Simply use
something like get_slice() on the index column family to get the uuids you
want for a particular slice of time, and then multiget the data column
family using those uuids as the keys.


Troubleshooting
---------------

#### "No Cassandra servers available" Exception when trying to write data to a single server setup.

Your keyspace may of defaulted to the `org.apache.cassandra.locator.NetworkTopologyStrategy` 
replication strategy resulting in Cassandra being unable to successfully commit. You can check 
using `describe Keyspace1;` in the cassandra-cli. Try using the following create keyspace 
statement instead:

`create keyspace Keyspace1 with placement_strategy = 'org.apache.cassandra.locator.SimpleStrategy' and strategy_options = {replication_factor:1};`

